For this lesson, I've closed down our liquid documentation and our cheat sheet,
and I've brought back our online store because in this lesson,
we're going to learn how to develop
our own special Shopify section for our custom theme right here.
I feel like sections are the best place for us to go in and do
some custom development because sections are really the center of your whole theme.
It's the place where you can actually put in schemas so that you can have
those customization options within your pages and your templates.
So as a good little project for this particular class,
what I want to do is actually create a team member section in our about page.
Okay. So if we go back to here, click on customize.
I'm going to open it up in a new tab.
We go to the About Us page that we created earlier.
Remember we hard coded in a section for map.
I want to replace that with our own section for team members because on our About page,
we might want to have a section on the different team members working at,
let's say we're a firm or some business or some store,
obviously being a Shopify store.
Maybe we want to highlight some key team members or the people that work for our company.
First of all, I'm going to get rid of that layout tag
because I don't think it makes sense to not have a header and a footer.
I'm going to go to page dot about,
remove this layout tag, save that.
I'm also going to get rid of section map and I'm going to take it back to basically,
the exact same thing as the regular page.
Okay. Refresh the page on our customizer.
You can see here we've got a standard page template and in between header and footer,
we've just got page content.
The content of our page, of course,
we are able to change in our pages menu item here.
Then, click on the page.
This is where we edit that content.
Okay. So what I'm going to do is go into the code editor again.
In sections, I'm going to create a section with the name of the section that we want.
I'm going to call it team members dot liquid.
You could call it staff dot liquid,
whatever you think is a good name.
Okay. Now in order to build this team members section,
I'm going to reference other areas of our code and we
can copy some structure that's already existing.
To get us started, what we're going to need is some kind of
div where we're going to put in our code.
Then we're going to need a schema.
Now remember what the schema is,
is the options in our customizer.
For this, we don't have a dynamic section in here yet but you saw in other pages,
like the product page,
we have a customizable section here.
This is all defined by the schema.
Hopefully, that has been hammered home already.
Moving back to the About Us page,
we're going to put in our own schema here, like such.
Then we need an end schema tag.
Within these opening and closing schema tags,
what we want to put in is a JSON object.
Okay. Now you may not be familiar with JSON,
but as I've said in the previous lessons, it's pretty simple.
It starts with curly brackets,
and now we have to define a few attributes of our schema.
I'm going to actually reference the documentation in
this lesson because sometimes it's good to
refresh the memory and I forget all the time what attributes we need for our schema.
Let me just search for themes,
schema and Shopify.
Theme sections.
Let's jump to here,
schema in the theme sections part.
Okay. Sections should have a name.
So put in a name and we're going to call it team members.
What else does it need?
We can put in a class,
and that's the CSS class that will go into the div.
We will give it a class of team members section.
This is the class we can reference in our CSS.
Then, of course, settings.
Now, we can write the settings probably before we even write any of the actual HTML code.
In order to define our settings that are going to be an array,
we need to open and close square brackets,
and then we can add in some more JSON objects.
For each of the settings,
we need an ID,
a type, and a label.
There's other things we can put in like a default value but we're going to need an ID,
type and label for every section settings.
The type is the input type which we went over in a previous lesson just briefly.
The label is what shows up in the customizer and
the ID is the variable that we will use within our code in
order to reference what the user has put into
this field or the default in the case that there's been nothing put in there.
You'll see this all happening as we build.
The first thing we're going to need,
ID and the first setting I want for our team members section is a section title.
I'm going to call it title.
For type, it's going to be
text and label is going to be section title.
You can set this up however you want,
it just has to make sense.
The type definitely has to be text because
that's going to be the input type that shows up in the customizer.
Everything else you can set to whatever you want.
This variable can be called something else.
Whatever shows up to the user on the front end,
that can be whatever you want as well.
Just note that. Time to add in another object.
That's going to be where I define the blocks.
What I want to do is,
we haven't really looked at blocks a lot in this course already.
In fact, we hardly touched on it.
What blocks allow us to do,
and I showed you in the slideshow section,
is allows us to basically add content in blocks.
I don't know how else to say it,
but it allows us basically to add blocks of
content which we can either remove or add multiple.
The limit of how many blocks we can add is defined by us.
I think blocks makes sense in a team member's section because number one,
we're going to have more than one team member most likely.
Number two, we might need to add or remove team members in future.
I think it makes total sense to use a block.
Coming back to About Us.
I don't know why I keep clicking back on this because we don't
have a section imported yet.
Let's actually do that right now.
This isn't fully formed yet,
but I'm going to go jump ahead a bit and throw
that section in here because when it's ready to go,
it'll be right inside this template,
ready for us to customize.
This section is going to be called team members.
That word there relates to what we've labeled our section in our sections file,
obviously without the dot liquid.
I'm going to actually create a default for this so that as soon as we run the page,
we're going to get a value without us having to write anything.
I'm just going to say,
it's meet our team, team in capitals.
That's going to be the default value.
Let's actually pause here for a sec with the schema.
Close that with just one setting and actually use that
setting now so we can actually see it come through in the customizer.
What I'm going to do for that is,
I'm going to steal the structure from another section
in our sections section. Too many sections.
Let me find a good example here.
Maybe, featured collection, feature columns.
You can see here that if the section title is not blank,
we want to put it out on the screen and we want to use
this HTML structure because there's CSS already associated with that,
we're going to get some automatic styles right out the gate.
Let's do that. In fact,
let's use this page width container as well.
That's going to make sure that the content we have conforms to the page width.
We've already got the closing div tag for that there.
I've just basically added the class page width.
Then, inside I've got if section settings dot title is not blank,
then we put it in and we escape any HTML that is put in there.
Because we labeled our title as the ID of title,
this is actually all we need to do.
We don't need to change the variable name.
If I save that, double-check
we haven't made any errors with the theme watch, we are all good,
and I refresh this page in the customizer,
what you'll now see is a team member's section
available for us to customize in between the header and footer.
If I click on this,
you can see our single option that we defined for section title.
Instead of Meet the Team,
maybe I might say our team.
This updates dynamically right in front of our eyes.
How cool is that? I'm happy with Meet the Team.
Now, I want to define some blocks.
Let's go and look in here and search for blocks.
Rendering section blocks.
That's not we're after. Blocks. Here we go.
Sections can define blocks in their schemas
and their containers of settings and content which can be added,
removed, and reordered within a section.
That's a pretty good one sentence explanation of what I was trying to explain earlier.
A block needs to have a name and a type,
and then you give it some settings,
just like you would, usually,
in the same way we've done for our section settings.
After our settings here,
after this little square bracket,
what we're going to want to do is put in blocks.
It works similar to settings.
We have to put in an array and so we're going to use square blocks again.
By the way, I just expanded and contracted that just to make it easier for us,
but I'll expand it out again.
Inside blocks, we have an object.
In that object, as it says,
we need a name and a type.
Name is going to be team member because it's a single team member.
Actually, we can just write it in readable English.
Then we're going to need to set the type and the type is whatever we want it to be,
because this is a block.
It's up to us to set our own types.
I'm going to call it staff-profile.
Now we define settings.
Just like we've done up here with settings,
we're going to put in the settings for each block.
We're going to open up a square bracket and we're going to need ID type and label again.
The first setting is going to be the name of the staff member.
I'm going to call it staff-name.
The type of that is just going to be a text field.
The label will be name.
Because everyone, everyone's name is going to be different there's
no point of having a default.
So next option, I'm going to put as the staff title.
This is their role at the company.
Have it type as text as well.
Label is going to be job title.
Scroll down to give us some more space.
We'll give it one more setting and that will be bio.
We will call it staff-bio.
This time, we're going to use text area instead of
text and the reason why we're using text area,
it's the same thinking as in regular HTML,
it's going to be a multi-line bio, most likely.
We don't actually want to have
text because that's just going to give us a one line input.
We want a bit of an area for us to write the bio.
Now that we have these attributes,
what we're going to want to do is put it in HTML up here.
What I'm going to do is use the for loop that we saw earlier.
What we going to have to do is cycle through the blocks in
this section and then put them all out.
I'm going to do
for block in section.blocks,
I believe, and then I'm going to end my loop.
This object here in the schema,
if you're following along,
is the section itself and then in here things we can reference.
The section dot name,
the section dot class,
section settings, section blocks.
Actually one thing I'll change is give this a more descriptive name.
I'm going to call it staff in section.blocks.
Because we've only got one type of block and its a staff
profile and we know that all these blocks are going to represent a staff member.
I'm just calling it staff.
Actually, staff can be plural,
so maybe I'll just say member.
Again, you can name this whatever you want,
just whatever makes it more more sense for you and more readable.
What I'm going to do is put in a div for each team member and inside that div,
I'm going to output these three variables that we have defined here.
What I'm going to do for that is a h3 for the name of the staff member.
I'm going to do a span for
the staff members title and then I'm going to put in a paragraph tag for their bio.
In here, this is where we put our liquid tags
and we just want to output whatever is in the block settings.
So I'm going to take the object of member,
which is what we have up here,
go through its settings and select staff name.
I'm going to copy this because the only thing we need to
change is the end part and instead of staff name,
I'm going to put in staff title
probably didn't need to put in the staff at the start of it.
Actually, I might go in and change that now.
Probably doesn't make sense to have.
Just going to go in and get rid of staff because we don't really need it.
We can just do name, title, and bio.
Now we should have enough for a two function.
We're going to need to make a few more changes,
but at least to get it coming out on the screen,
let's have a look after we save.
There's no errors in our theme watch.
We should be sweet and if we go to our page in the customizes, refresh the page.
Now if I go into Team Members,
you'll see we can add a block.
I'm going to add a team member.
I'm going to give the team member name of,
let's just give it my name.
Web Developer.
As you can see, it's coming out right away.
I'm going to add in some Lorem ipsum,
just copy it from the top here as the buyer and there you go.
We have some content inserted in the page.
If I add another team member,
let's just say it's Christopher Dodd again.
I did not come up with other staff member names in preparation,
so you're just going to have to deal with seeing my name twice.
But as you can see,
it's adding another div with all the content that we've set here.
It cycles through the blocks and then adds in this content.
Very cool. I'm going to click "Save" even though it looks like crap.
Let's do some styling.
We can take advantage of the grid system in our theme.
This is a slight thing that happens on pretty much every theme that uses
light to be built or the Shopify free themes will be using the slight grid.
What I can do is wrap this in a grid.
'm going to put a div around this, call it grid.
For this div, I'm going to give it a class of grid item,
and I'm also going to add a class to define columns.
There's a few screen sizes developed in the grid system.
If you want to learn about the slate grid,
let me just see if there's information available.
Slates grid.
There might be some information available on Google.
Here styles with liquid.
No. Let me get out of the slight documentation.
Click on "CSS Examples". Here we go.
Right here we have our CSS breakpoints, medium,
large, widescreen, gutter is the space in-between grid elements.
If I scroll down here,
you can see some examples of the grid system.
For instance, if we wanted the column to take up one half of
the page on screen sizes that are medium and up.
This is the class we would use.
In fact, that's the exact class I want to use for our little team members section.
I'm going to put that in there.
As you can see, it's similar to what they've defined here,
they've got a grid and then they've got grid items,
and then they've got the column specification.
You can stack these with small one third, one sixth.
You can have it change how wide the column is based on the screen size.
But for us, medium up,
one half should be fine.
Going to my theme, watch everything sweet.
I'm going to go back here, refresh the page.
Now you'll see that our team members section is in this nice two column grid.
If I was to add a third team member,
say it's my name again. You can see.
That we've got another section here.
Obviously there is spacing issues here.
An easy way to fix this is by just giving some margin top to all of these grid elements.
Again, we should probably be doing this in CSS,
but just in the interest of time,
I'm just going to put it here in line.
I'm going to give it a margin top of 15 pixels. Save that.
Theme watch is happy,
refresh the page and now we've got a bit more of a margin.
We can increase that margin by whatever we set in here.
Maybe we want it at 30 instead,
not a big deal.
It's up to you what you want to do with your styling.
Going back to our about us section,
there's one more thing that I feel like our team member profiles need,
and that is an image.
Now I've left image to lost because
it's a little bit more complicated than adding a text field.
Looking at our input options.
I'm not sure if there's input options here, let me have a look.
Input types.
I guess we're on the wrong page for input types.
If I search the documentation, is it this one?
Basic input setting types? Here we go.
Here you can see that we can use an image picker for image uploads.
There's two parts to this, obviously,
I got to add the option in our block and then I've got to add it into our actual HTML.
I'm going to put it actually above name.
I'm going to create a new object here and inside,
I'm going to have the id of photo,
type is going to be what I showed you before image picker,
and label is photo.
We can say whatever we want.
I save that and now we have that option in our settings.
The next step will be to put it in our actual content.
I'm going to put in an image tag up here and the way I'm going to do
that is by using a filter that we saw earlier.
I'm going to open up an opening closing curly brackets,
and I'm going to grab member settings.
Was it image or photo that we called it?
Photo. Member settings photo.
Then I'm going to run it through the image URL filter to get the URL of that photo.
Then I'm going to run it through image tag to get the tag to output on the screen.
If I save that, check if I've made any errors, look so good.
On theme watch, refresh the page.
You'll see here that we've got a bunch of No Image.
What we should do actually is first check if there's an image.
Otherwise we're going to get that ugly No Image.
This is an optional step,
but it's going to make it look nicer.
We'll put in a conditional here, member, settings, photo.
We'll put it in and if not,
nothing will come up.
Save that. See if we got any Liquid errors,
no, we're all good. Refresh the page.
Now you can see no images show up,
until we add them ourselves.
If I go into this section,
I go into a block.
You can now see that I have this photo input.
I can actually explore Free images through Shopify's database,
or I can select my own image.
What I'm going to do is find an image of myself and upload that. Here we go.
Once that's in, it will go into the content.
If I go out here and add images for the other sections.
Let's just add the same one.
You'll see it comes up here in the actual block as well, which is pretty cool.
You can identify the different team members easier.
You'll now see that I have the photo,
the name, the title, and a buyer.
Now, of course, we want to fix this padding and spacing.
We can do that in CSS,
but that's not the point of this lesson.
The point is to show you these blocks,
and how we can build our own settings in the customizer through our code.
Now there's one more issue that we have with this,
and that the image size is very small.
That's because if you use image URL without any parameters,
it's going to show up with an image that I believe is a 100 by 100, quite small.
What we're going to do to finish off,
is add in a parameter here,
which is going to tell Liquid how big we want the image.
I'm going to say 500x.
That will make an image with 500 by 500.
Save that, refresh the page,
and now you can see we've got a 500 by 500 image on each of our team members.
That's actually a bit too big,
so I'm going to scale that down to 300,
and I'm going to add in another team member,
which is just going to be me again,
just to show you the extent of the grid.
Christopher Dodd, Job Title: Web Developer,
Bio, we'll just copy from the other ones.
There you go. Save that,
and now you can see we've got this two-column grid with our team members.
We can go in, we can delete blocks,
we can reorder them,
or we can add new team members and all of that without using code.
As you can see, we've set it up once in the code.
We've set up our options.
We've set up where we want those values that we set to show up in our code,
and we've developed our own section.
Now, there's one more thing I want to show you,
and that's adding a preset,
so that we can use this section in our content for index tag.
Let's go back to our documentation here,
and maybe we'll find it in this place, presets.
No, so we're going to have to go back to the page we were on before.
Configuring theme settings, was that it?
Theme sections. Here we go.
Presets. Here we go.
If we click on "Presets",
we can see this section,
which we can define a name and a category for us to be
able to use on our content for index section.
If we go into our Home page where content for index is running,
and we click "Add section", let's see.
There's Custom content. That's not what we're after.
Rich texts, Map, Newsletter.
See, we don't actually have our team members section here.
If we wanted to add it as one of our sections in content for index,
we just need to add a preset.
I'm going to grab this as an example just to save time. Go in here.
Close down blocks to make it a bit easier to read,
and put in presets.
Now, we don't need blocks because this is just going to set a preset on our blocks,
which we can do if we want to, but not necessary.
All I want to do is give it a name and category,
so that we can use it in our content for index.
That category should match one of these ones here.
I think the most appropriate maybe Store Information. Let's just go with that.
I'm going to call it Store Information,
and because it's in capitals,
I'm not sure exactly whether I should put mine capitals or not.
I'm just going to see how they do it with the map template.
Going down to map and scrolling down to the bottom to see the preset,
we can see the name is Map and the category is Store information.
Just like we've written it. Category, store information,
and the name is going to be Team Members. Press "Save" on that.
Have we gotten the errors? No, we haven't.
Actually we do. We've got an invalid JSON.
That's because we haven't closed this down,
and we haven't actually closed the square bracket either.
How do we boot that up?
Hopefully we don't have any JSON errors now.
Updated. Now, if I refresh our Home page in the customizer, click "Add section."
Now on the Store Information,
I don't know why it's coming up twice,
but at least we have it here.
We can add our Meet the Team section.
Down the bottom, we can add team members just like we did before,
and it'll show up in a nice little grid.
As we update the content,
it will come up automatically,
and we can reorder that section,
within all of our other sections.
There you go. How good is that?
I'm actually not going to save that because I don't want
to meet this Team section on my Home page.
But that pretty much concludes booting your own Shopify section.
Now, as I said before,
you'll want to style it a bit differently.
You'll want to add some either inline styles or go into your theme.scss.liquid,
and add in some styles using classes to target what you've put in this new section.
Maybe putting in class of team member, underscore,
underscore name, and then doing the same for your title and bio.
This would be a good way to lay out your CSS using BEM,
Block Element Modifier is what that stands for.
If you want to learn more about why we're using underscore,
underscore here and why it's used all throughout the FEM,
BEM is what you need to research.
But that's outside the scope of this class, unfortunately.
What I've just done here is put in some classes that we can go
and target in theme.scss.liquid.
This is not specifically a CSS class,
so I won't get into that.
But yeah, that's it.
That's your custom section built.
Hopefully that shows you the power of sections.
I've worked with other platforms in the past,
and I haven't seen anything like this where you can just
define a bunch of options in a JSON block,
and then suddenly you're able to use it directly above it
and have such a nice user interface for customization.
If we go back to that About Us page,
where we've hard coded this section in there.
We are able to use this lovely user interface which
updates what we have over here in the preview live.
That's really cool.
I hope you guys have enjoyed learning how to do this.
In the next few videos,
we're going to wrap up this side,
show you how to send it off to a client side or to
a proper store where you're going to actually pay for a plan if you so choose.
Stick around for that.
I'll see you in the next video.